what we have here is the pmw 55 this is
really our 4k workhorse the camera
that's been out everywhere shooting
episodic television which shows such as
the Big Bang Theory
the blacklist so what we see here is a
configuration with a Fujinon Cabrio in
front so it's equipped so that it would
be portable easy to operate an easy
transition to a film style production
from video operators we also have a row
recorder at the back and what we're
showing here is the newest firmware
version version 4.2 which has additional
bells and whistle as you know we've been
releasing tons of firmware on this
camera it is a camera that does 4k
onboard HD it even does proxy recording
when external adapter it does hdcam sr
it does pro res and DNxHD which will
come out soon as an option so really a
camera that's gonna bring you in the
production industry for many many many
years which will carry you for many
years without having to look into future
products so my name is Alistair Chapman
and I'm a blogger and the DOP I'm known
for writing about cinema TV technology
but also I'm as a working cameraman I've
done all kinds of major projects over 25
years of working in television some of
the highlights of those have been
working for National Geographic my own
production company commissioned to
produce programs so then one in
particular called twister tours that was
one of their best-selling shows when we
made that about storm chasing naturally
about a couple that for their 50th
wedding anniversary went storm chasing
is a really bizarre story more sort of
recently I shoot a lot of very high end
stock footage that's used in all kinds
of collections used by museums
documentaries but also in feature films
and movies like The Day After Tomorrow I
have footage in films like that so
quality is paramount and I really really
need to shoot stuff that it's not just
good but the best BBC Natural History
Unit now all they're big and all their
high-end productions are being shot in
4k so they won't take HD anymore so I
needed to get on the 4k gravy train as
quickly as I could that was very
expensive but then when Sony F
I've came out it was an affordable
option that I could afford to actually
buy myself so I bought an f5 with an r5
row recorder and for three years now
I've been shooting almost everything in
4k rule and the quality is incredible
it's just amazing what you can do with
that 4k image from the f5 I also use the
55 for commercials I'd shoot TV
commercials and there'll be some
applications where the f55 is the camera
that we need because of its global
shutter which is a unique feature in
these large sensor cameras so they're
big they're really great and it really
enabled me to dramatically improve the
quality of the images that I'm
delivering to my customers the f5 and
f55 they're both very similar to look at
externally the difference actually is
the 55 which this is has a silver ring
here and the five has a black ring so
from the outside that's all the
differences internally the differences
aren't huge there are some key
differences between the two cameras the
f55 the big thing is it has this amazing
sensor with what's called frame image
scanning more commonly known as a global
shutter and that means you don't get any
jello artefacts no rolling shutter
artefacts so you can shoot fast action
sports wildlife without having any image
artifacts and that's really important
for a lot of productions both of the
cameras can shoot in 4k both can do 4k
raw and both can shoot it up to 240
frames per second so that makes it a
really versatile camera competitive you
get a hell of a lot of camera for your
money it's small its compact it's
low-power I travel a lot so having low
power is important some of the
competitors to the f5 and 55 actually
draw close to a hundred Watts that's
four times more power than this so you
need four times as many batteries it's a
camera that has constantly evolved and
improved during its lifetime when I
bought the camera the feature set was
nowhere near as big as it is now and
it's a feature set that's getting better
and better and better there are still
more firmware updates coming for these
cameras that are going to make them even
better now recently Sony did introduce a
new camera the FS 7 PX w FS 7 that's
very closely related to the F 5 and 55
they share a lot of the same
functionality and all
same capabilities image quality is very
similar and pxw fs7 the price point on
that camera is unbelievable in terms of
value for money it is ridiculous if I
actually own one of each now I do have
more than one camera so I have an F s7
and an f5 but they're quite different
cameras to use so for run-and-gun
where you're working very quickly the F
s7 has some advantages because it has
autofocus you have auto exposure and
things like that tools that make working
very quickly very very good but then
when you're doing digital cinematography
and filmmaking and you're using things
like look-up tables and things like that
where your camera setup gets a little
bit more complicated the f5 and f55 have
some major benefits because you have
this display panel on the side of the
camera that tells you how the cameras
set up so at a glance I can see
precisely how this camera is set up
exactly what it's doing and that makes
your workflow very fast
I prepared a key and I was nominated for
King Tut unmasked and
that's docudrama we originally wanted to
shoot a Mira
area Mira but the mirror was not
available it was only gonna be available
two months after that so we still went
with Sony f55 mainly because the high
frame rate we want to shoot a lot of 200
frames really high speed photography so
that was a workhorse that we could still
throw the Cabrio lenses on it on the
shoulder BMG P&G and still shoot with
beautiful cut crimes as well so it had
the versatility of both being a dog
camera and you know a full-frame 30 35
mil sensor camera we shot 4k 100 200
frames and then still did all the
documentary part that we needed to with
the you know Cabrio zoom lenses on a 55
what I have here is the pxw ff7 probably
the hottest product on the show right
now our new 4k camera at less than
$10,000 one of the nice things about the
f5 and f55 and also actually the ff7 is
we can change that lens mount on the
camera so we don't we're not tied to the
PL mount of the f5 and 55 or the emails
with the episode and we can put
different adapters on both of these
cameras to change the lenses that we're
using in terms of which lenses do use
well you have a huge range of choices
you have your classic cinema lenses from
companies like cook and Zeiss and Sony
as well if you're doing the drama
something romantic you might look of
cook lenses because they're a little bit
soft they have a warm look too which is
really pleasing for draft or romantic
drama but if you were doing an action
film or something like that you want
something that's a bit sharp learn a bit
crisper actually one lens blinds that's
not very well known as the sony PL mount
lenses and they're really superb they're
very very sharp have minimal aberrations
and have no false colors so they give
you a very neutral image and that's
really good for a modern workflow where
you're going to create your looking
post-production so you want to shoot
something that's very neutral because
you'll create your look in cloaks the
fs7 is a really great camera for
post-production heavy workflow if you
want although it's aimed at run-and-gun
shooting it also has physical cinema
mode in it called Cassini er where you
can treat it like
camera and you can actually rape the
camera at different ISO s depending on
what you're shooting so that gives you a
big flexibility it allows you to get
lower noise in your pictures which is
always very good for grading and really
allows you to extract a great image from
what is a really low-cost camera I was
at IBC when they introduced the ff7 and
I had a pretty good idea that it was
going to be a relatively low-cost camera
but when they announced the price I was
absolutely stunned because to get the
feature set that's in this camera today
really you need to spend three to four
times what this camera cost it's really
incredibly cheap you are still getting
that full cinema workflow you are
getting a full Eng workflow if that's
what you want you have the ability to
put almost any lens on this camera and
very few cameras have that ability
actually without having tools to
actually physically take the camera
apart and change for those now you can
also shoot the vlog on this camera so
that gives you 14 stops of dynamic range
so it copes really well with challenging
lighting situations you have a look-up
tables built-in so that when you're
shooting with log the director the
producer the other people on the set can
see an image that looks like what it's
going to look like when it's graded you
also have the ability to take a raw
output from the camp so you can record
in RAW when you record it raw
effectively you're taking the image
direct from the sensor to your computer
so it minimizes compression artifacts
you can do things like changing your
white balance and post-production really
easy and there's a incredible amount of
information in the highlights that isn't
normally in bet with conventional video
recording and there really is no other
cameras anywhere like this in the market
right now and that the price point that
you get you're paying for it it's
stunning I mean one more thing to about
is the the lens they do a kit lens for
it at twenty eight to one hundred and
thirty-five millimeter lens that lens
again the price is absolutely amazing
because it's about 1/10 of the price of
a comparable cinematic it's a servo
zooms you have a zoom rocking in
consumed in and out with power zoom it
has autofocus 2800
thirty five-millimeter the nearest
competitor lens lattice in the market
have bitter parfocal so there's no focus
shift as you zoom in and out is going to
cost you forty thousand dollars whereas
the 28 135 it's in the sort of two and a
half three thousand dollar right it's a
really amazing and blends for the money